[workers-observability] query builder docs (#21507)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers/observability/investigate/query-builder.mdx

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Query Builder
head: []
description: Write structured queries to investigate and visualize your telemetry data.
sidebar:
  order: 1
  badge:
    variant: tip
    text: New

---

import { TabItem, Tabs, Steps, Render, WranglerConfig, YouTube, Markdown } from "~/components"

> The Query Builder helps you write structured queries to investigate and visualize your telemetry data. The Query Builder searches the Workers Observability dataset, which currently includes all logs stored by [Workers Logs](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Query Builder helps you write structured queries to investigate and visualize your telemetry data. The Query Builder searches the Workers Observability dataset, which currently includes all logs stored by [Workers Logs](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs/).
```

> The Query Builder can be found in the [Workers' Observability tab in the Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers-and-pages/observability/investigate).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Query Builder can be found in the [Workers' Observability tab in the Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers-and-pages/observability/investigate/).
```

## Enable Query Builder

The Query Builder is available to all developers and requires no enablement. Queries search all Workers Logs stored by Cloudflare. If you have not yet enabled Workers Logs, you can do so by adding the following setting to your [Worker's Wrangler file](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs/#enable-workers-logs) and redeploying your Worker.

<WranglerConfig>
	```toml
	[observability]
	enabled = true

	[observability.logs]
	invocation_logs = true
	head_sampling_rate = 1 # optional. default = 1.
	```
</WranglerConfig>

## Write a Query in the Cloudflare Dashboard

<Steps>
1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers/services/view/:worker/observability/investigate/) and select your account.
2. In Account Home, go to **Workers & Pages**.
3. Select **Observability** in the left-hand navigation panel, and then the **Investigate** tab.
4. Select a **Visualization**.
5. Optional: Add fields to Filter, Group By, Order By, and Limit. For more information, see what [composes a query](/workers/observability/investigate/query-builder/#query-composition).
6. Optional: Select the appropriate time range.

> 7. Click **Run**. The query will automatically run whenever changes are made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Select **Run**. The query will automatically run whenever changes are made.
```

</Steps>

> ## Query Composition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Query composition
```

![Example of showing the Query Builder with multiple visualization](~/assets/images/workers-observability/query-builder-visualization.png)

All methods are aggregate functions. Most methods operate on a specific field in the log event. `Count` is an exception, and is an aggregate function that returns the number of log events matching the filter conditions.

### Filter

Filters help return the columns that match the specified conditions. Filters have three components: a key, an operator, and a value.

The key is any field in a log event. For example, you may choose `$workers.cpuTimeMs` or `$metadata.message`.

The operator is a logical condition that evaluates to true or false. See the table below for supported conditions:
| Data Type | Valid Conditions (Operators) |
| --- | --- |
| Numeric | Equals, Does not equal, Greater, Greater or equals, Less, Less or equals, Exists, Does not exist |
| String  | Equals, Does not equal, Includes, Does not include, Regex, Exists, Does not exist, Starts with   |

The value for a numeric field is an integer. The value for a string field is any string.

To add a filter:

<Steps>

> 1. Click **+** in the **Filter** section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select **+** in the **Filter** section.
```

2. Select **Select key...** and input a key name. For example, `$workers.cpuTimeMs`.
3. Select the operator and change it to the operator best suited. For example, `Greater than`.
4. Select **Select value...** and input a value. For example, `100`.
</Steps>

When you run the query with the filter specified above, only log events where `$workers.cpuTimeMs > 100` will be returned.

Adding multiple filters combines them with an AND operator, meaning that only events matching all the filters will be returned.

### Search

> Search is a text filter that returns only events containing the specified text. Search can be helpful as a quick filtering mechanism, or to search for unique indentifiable values in your logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Search is a text filter that returns only events containing the specified text. Search can be helpful as a quick filtering mechanism, or to search for unique identifiable values in your logs.
```

### Group By

Group By combines rows that have the same value into summary rows. For example, if a query adds `$workers.event.request.cf.country` as a Group By field, then the summary table will group by country.

### Order By

> Order By affects how the results are sorted in the summary table. If `asc` is selected, the results are sorted in ascending order -- from least to greatest. If `desc` is selected, the results are sorted in descending order -- from greatest to least.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Order By affects how the results are sorted in the summary table. If `asc` is selected, the results are sorted in ascending order — from least to greatest. If `desc` is selected, the results are sorted in descending order — from greatest to least.
```

### Limit

Limit restricts the number of results returned. When paired with [Order By](/workers/observability/investigate/#order-by), it can be used to return the "top" or "first" N results.

> ### Select Time Range

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Select time range
```

When you select a time range, you specify the time interval where you want to look for matching events. The retention period is dependent on your [plan type](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs/#pricing).

> ## Viewing Query Results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Viewing query results
```

There are three views for queries: Visualizations, Invocations, and Events.

### Visualizations tab

> The Visualizations tab shows graphs and a summary table for the query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Visualizations** tab shows graphs and a summary table for the query.
```

![Visualization Overview](~/assets/images/workers-observability/qb-visualization-overview.png)

### Invocations tab

> The Invocation tab shows all logs, grouped by by the invocation, and ordered by timestamp. Only invocations matching the query criteria are returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Invocation** tab shows all logs, grouped by by the invocation, and ordered by timestamp. Only invocations matching the query criteria are returned.
```

> p

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This was just a typo, right?

![Invocations Overview](~/assets/images/workers-observability/qb-invocations-overview.png)

### Events tab

> The Events tab shows all logs, ordered by timestamp. Only events matching the query criteria are returned. The Events tab can be customized to add additional fields in the view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Events** tab shows all logs, ordered by timestamp. Only events matching the query criteria are returned. The Events tab can be customized to add additional fields in the view.
```

![Overview](~/assets/images/workers-observability/qb-events-overview.png)

## Save queries

> It is recommended to save queries that may be reused for future investigations. You can save a query with a name, description, and custom tags by selecting the 'Save Query' button. Queries are saved at the account-level and are accessible to all users in the account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to save queries that may be reused for future investigations. You can save a query with a name, description, and custom tags by selecting **Save Query**. Queries are saved at the account-level and are accessible to all users in the account.
```

> Saved queries can be re-run by selecting the relevant query from the 'Queries' tab. You can edit the query and save edits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Saved queries can be re-run by selecting the relevant query from the **Queries** tab. You can edit the query and save edits.
```

Queries can be starred by users. Starred queries are unique to the user, and not to the account.

## Delete queries

> Saved queries can be deleted from the 'Queries' tab. If you delete a query, the query is deleted for all users in the account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Saved queries can be deleted from the **Queries** tab. If you delete a query, the query is deleted for all users in the account.
```

<Steps>
1. Select the [Queries](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers-and-pages/observability/queries) tab in the Observability dashboard.
2. On the right-hand side, select the three dots for additional actions.

> 3. Select 'Delete Query' and follow the instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select **Delete Query** and follow the instructions.
```

</Steps>

## Share queries

Saved queries are assigned a unique URL and can be shared with any user in the account.

> ## Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example: Writing and composing a query
```
Or something else elaborating on the Example heading

> Let's construct a query to find and debug all paths that respond with 500 errors. First, let's create a base query. In this base query, we want to visualize by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we will construct a query to find and debug all paths that respond with 500 errors. First, we create a base query. In this base query, we want to visualize by
```

the raw event count. We can add a filter for `$workers.event.response.status` that is greater than 300 so we can identify all paths that may be experiencing

> unexpected behavior. Then, we can group by `$workers.event.request.path` and `$workers.event.response.status` to identify the number of requests that were

Reviewer: ```suggestion
unexpected behavior. Then, we group by `$workers.event.request.path` and `$workers.event.response.status` to identify the number of requests that were
```

affected by this behavior.

![Constructing a query](~/assets/images/workers-observability/query-builder-ex1-query.png)

> The results show that the `/actuator/env` path has been experiencing 500s. Let us apply a filter for this path and investigate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results show that the `/actuator/env` path has been experiencing 500s. Now, we can apply a filter for this path and investigate.
```

![Adding an additional field to the query](~/assets/images/workers-observability/query-builder-ex1-query-with-filter.png)

> Now, let's investigate by clicking on the 'Invocations' tab. We can see that there were two logged invocations of this error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we investigate by selecting the **Invocations** tab. We can see that there were two logged invocations of this error.
```

> Now, let's investigate by clicking on the 'Invocations' tab. We can see that there were two logged invocations of this error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we can investigate by selecting the **Invocations** tab. We can see that there were two logged invocations of this error.
```
